Now for the next and previous page functionality, let's add the chest test.
So let's have this one as a reference.
And let's open the user list component just as here.
So let's add the first one, which is this one.
It displays next page button.
So just copying this test description.
So we will be rendering the compound but let's extract this part is a is a separate set of function
so we will use it in each test set up async and it is doing this part.
So we are going to await set up here.
Now in this one we are going to again call the setup, then we will wait until the API request to be
completed because the next page button will be visible when the API request is completed.
And initially we are loading the first page and in the first page we have the users like the user one,
user two, user three.
We can use one of those as a reference to make sure the API call is completed so we can say screen find
by text and let's wait for user one text to appear.
So this means the API call is completed, users are now visible.
Then we can query screen query by text again.
We are going to look for this one next and greater than sign to be in the document.
So saving this one, since the implementation is there, the tests are going to be passing.
And here we see the user list as our blessing.
Now let's add the next test.
And that one is.
This one.
And instead of going with the same description, we can go with something different for the most part,
because in this test implementation we are interacting with the testing controller to make sure we are
sending the correct parameters.
But in the test part, we are using a mock service worker, which means we don't have to deal with the
requests, we don't need to interact with the request, but we only care about the UI UI stated in the
end.
So let's, let's have the testing like this.
It displays next page after clicking next.
So.
We are going to let's make sure this is async again.
We are going to call setup again.
We are going to wait for user one to appear initially the first page is loaded.
Then let's get the let's say this is next page button.
So we are going to click to this one.
First, let's import user event from testing library user event.
So we are going to user event, click to the next page.
We can assign it to a variable or we can go like this.
So this is complaining because the query by text returns either element or not.
But since we know there will be a next page, we can change this one to get by text.
So we are clicking to the next.
Then in the next page we receive the next users like user four, five and six.
So we are going to wait for user four to be visible.
So that's the test and let's assign it to a variable.
We know this is going to be failing if the page won't be visible, but let's go exploit explicit assertion
part.
So let's say this is the first user on page two and we expect this first user in page two to be in the.
Document saving this one.
And it's also passing.
And the next test is the visibility of next page button in the last page.
So it hides next page.
Button.
It's the last page.
So we are.
Initially in the first page clicking next, then we are in the second page, then we are going to click
next one more time to to go to the last page.
So this is going to be the last page because in the presentation implementation we only have three pages.
So in the last page we will see the user seven and then we can query this next button.
Now we are querying an element which can be null.
So we are going with the query by text.
So we are querying this next button, but this time we expect it not to be in the document, saving
it.
This is also passing and let's add the test for the previous button.
And the first test was it does not display the previous page button in first page and I will just copy
this test.
It is displays next page button just copying this one.
So this is the first page we are waiting for user one to appear.
Then we are going to query previous and we expect this and not to be in the document.
So saving this one.
Now in the next test, we are going to check the visibility of the previous button in the second page.
So the test will be like this.
It displays previous page button in page two.
So we are going to go to the next page and previously we have done that here.
So we are clicking next.
Waiting for user four to appear.
Then we are going to check for previous visibility.
So this is the test.
So saving this one.
And this is also passing and we have only one test left.
And in that one we are going to click to the preview.
So just copying the last test and pasting here.
And in this one it displays a previous page after clicking previous page button.
So we are going to click to the button in this one.
So we will just call user event click and we will query the button, but we will use get by text because
we know the button is there, we are clicking to it.
Then we are going to wait for our user once to appear.
And let's say this is first user in first page, let's have something like this one and we are expecting
this to be in the document saving this one.
And the tests are passing.
So compared to the the Kama Jasmine version, I have different approach in the Gest test.
The tests we are having are more similar to the ones we do in the browser manually, so we are just
waiting for a page to load.
Then we see the next button.
Then we are clicking to that one and we are seeing the next page to be loaded.
And then we do the assertion like we are seeing the previous button in the next page.
So this is more like a real user steps compared to the jasmine and karma version.
And by the way, I've just realized there is an inconsistency between the tests in the gist and the
the test in the karma.
Like it's a saying, there are 60 tests passing and if we check the karma, it says there are 55 tests
are passing.
And actually we have more tests in the karma version like here like the login component has this default
test and also a user component has this default test as well.
And also in the user list component, we had the test like this one, it sends size parameters three.
We didn't do that one in the the just version like in the just we only have the test it displays three
user in list like this one and we just directly jump to the next one.
It displays next page button so we don't have that test as well.
But the issue is now we are using the the function, this get page function and this is in the user
list component spec and this is triggering just to run these tests as well.
So let's verify this first here in the just output, I'm just going to filter the test to run only the
user list.
So hitting P and typing user dash list.
And here we see there are 15 tests in this one.
But if you check the the user list component, we only have these tests and if we count those, they
are not 15.
And if we checked the whole list right here, here we see there is this user list component.
So this describes is basically coming from this one.
We don't have that same describe in the in the user list compound justice.
So this issue is occurring again because of the usage of the get page function in in the user list component.
Just we are using this page which is in this aspect is to overcome this issue.
It's not causing any problem.
But let's, let's make sure we don't mix tests together.
Let's extract the get page functionality out of this component spec.
Yes.
So just cutting this one and I'm just going to create a new file under this user list and I will name
it as test helper.
We can move it somewhere else.
But just to demonstrate this is going to fix this problem, I would like to add the file just right
here and pasting the the part I cut from the test module.
So saving this one.
And now in the user list component spec, I will just import this kit page function from this test helper.
So here it is imported from this one and in the user is component as well.
We are going to import this git page from the test helper.
And saving it.
Now the user lists are passing.
Now we are seeing there's only seven tests are passing because it's only running this describe log user
list.
Now the the test in the spec is not involved in the just output.
Let's also make sure nothing is broken on the car side as well.
So here in the output we are seeing 55 tests are passing.
And again, going back to just and let's run all the tests this time hitting a.
And here we see all these are passing.
And this time we see only 52 tests are passing because there are total 52 tests.
And compared to karma, we are missing three tests.
And those are if you go over one more time, the tests are this one like this is the the missing test
on the chest part.
And we don't have any test about the log in component and we don't.
So we also don't have any test for the user component.
So the additional three test cases are these are in the karma.